Filing Process
Home
Patents
Before You Apply
Filing Process
Filing of Patent Application
Roadmap for Innovators
View Document
Filing of Patent Application
It is not necessary to visit the Patent Office to file the application, as an online
filing facility is
provided.
Only in cases where the application is required to be filed offline, the same can be
filed physically at
the counter
of the Office or can be sent by post to the Patent Office. Moreover, all communications
by the office
are made through emails.
A patent application can be filed with the Indian Patent Office either with a
provisional specification
or with a
complete specification along with the fee as prescribed in Schedule I. In case the
application is filed
with a
provisional specification, the applicant must file the complete specification within 12
months from the
date of filing
of the provisional specification. There is no further extension of time to file the
complete
specification after the expiry of the said period.
Patent applications can be filed through the comprehensive online filing system available
at:
https://ipronline.ipindia.gov.in/epatentfiling/goForLogin/doLogin
Digital Signature Certificate (DSC)
To register for filing of a patent application, the applicant can use a Digital
Signature Certificate (DSC)
or E-sign as per convenience. If the user wants to use DSC, the user is required to
obtain a
Class II/III digital signature without encryption from authorized vendors.
Vendor
URL
Vendor's list along with their URL
View Vendor List
eMudhra Digital Signature Registration
Register for Digital Signature
E-Signature (E-Sign)
If the user wants to use E-signature, complete information is available under different
tabs.
The user will have to procure the E-sign from the authorized vendor using Aadhaar number
or PAN number.
E-Sign Introduction:
View Details
Registration and Installation Details:
View Steps
Web URL to procure E-Sign:
Procure E-Sign
Process After obtaining DSC or E-sign
After obtaining the Digital Signature or the E-sign, the user can register on the Patent
Office website by creating
a user ID and password. The user can log in using these credentials.
After logging into the e-filing account, the user can select the required form, fill in
the details, save the draft,
and upload all relevant documents. The documents can then be digitally signed through
DSC or E-sign.
After digitally signing the documents, they will appear under the
"Payment"
tab.
The user can click on the payment tab and select the particular form to make payment.
After successful payment, an acknowledgement receipt will be generated.
All previously drafted forms are available under the
"Form History"
tab
and further under the
"Drafted Forms"
section. If a user discards any forms, they will appear
under the
"Discarded Forms"
section.
Users can locate previously drafted forms using the specific date range filter.
Users can also update their mobile number and email through the e-filing module under
the
"User Panel"
tab.
Generally, in order to file an application, an applicant is required to file Form 1 which
is a request for filing an application and Form 2 which is either a provisional or
complete specification with drawings, if any. In addition to these, an abstract of the
invention is also required. If the application is filed through a registered patent
agent, a power of authority in favour of the said agent in Form 26 is also required. The
application can be examined only after receipt of request for examination on Form
18/18A. The complete list of forms is available on the website
www.ipindia.gov.in
Useful Links for E-Filing
The user can visit the e-filing website where detailed information is available:
Digital Signature Information:
View Information
General FAQs:
View FAQs
Digital Signature Manual:
Download Manual
**
Disclaimer: The information provided on this page is for general guidance only. It does not
constitute legal advice, statutory interpretation, or an official statement of law. In case of
any inconsistency, the provisions of the Patents Act, 1970, the Patents Rules, 2003, and
applicable notifications shall prevail. This content shall not be relied upon, cited, or used
for interpretation in any judicial, quasi-judicial, or administrative proceedings. The Office of
the Controller General of Patents, Designs and Trade Marks shall not be liable for any action
taken based on this explanatory material.